README.md, before:

Reactor Micro-C 
====================

`reactor-uc` is a task scheduling runtime for Lingua Franca, targeted at embedded and resource-constrained systems. Please refer to the
[Lingua Franca Handbook](https://www.lf-lang.org/docs/) for more information on reactor-oriented programming using Lingua Franca. For more
information on reactor-uc see our [docs](https://www.lf-lang.org/reactor-uc/)


## Getting started

### Requirements
- CMake
- Make
- A C compiler like GCC or clang
- Linux or macOS development environment
- Java 17
- Additional requirements depend on the target platform

## Supported Platforms
`reactor-uc` can run on top of Zephyr, RIOT, Raspberry Pi Pico and POSIX-compliant OSes.

### Native (macOS and Linux)
`reactor-uc` can also run natively on a host system based on Linux or macOS. This is very useful for developing and testing applications
without the target hardware. By setting the platform target property in your LF program to `Native` the compiler will automatically generate 
a CMake project and compile it natively. E.g.

```sh
cat > HelloWorld.lf << EOF
target uC {
  platform: Native
}
 
main reactor {
  reaction(startup) {=
    printf("Hello World!\n");
  =}
}
EOF
./lfc/bin/lfc-dev HelloWorld.lf
bin/HelloWorld
```


### Zephyr

**Template Repository:** [https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-zephyr-uc-template/](https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-zephyr-uc-template/)

Compile and run a simple test on Zephyr. This requires a correctly configured
Zehyr environment, with West installed in a Python virtual environment, is
activated. Inspect `.github/actions/zephyr/action.yml` for an example of setting up your Zephyr workspace. 

First a simple HelloWorld on the `native_posix` target:
```shell
cd examples/zephyr/hello
west build -b native_posix -p always -t run
```

Then a simple blinky targeting NXP FRDM K64F. This will run with most boards supporting Zephyr that have a user LED.
```shell
cd examples/zephyr/blinky
west build -b frdm_k64f -p always
west flash
```
### RIOT 

**Template Repository:** [https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-riot-uc-template/](https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-riot-uc-template/)

Compile and run a simple blinky example on RIOT.
This requires a correctly configured RIOT environment.
Make sure that the environment variable `RIOTBASE` points to a `RIOT` codebase.

```shell
cd examples/riot/blinky
make BOARD=native all term
```

### RP2040

**Template Repository:** [https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-pico-uc-template/](https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-pico-uc-template/)

Download `pico-sdk` and define PICO_SDK_PATH as an environmental variable.

```shell
cd examples/pico
cmake -Bbuild
cd build
make
```

## Contributing

### Code organization
The project is organized as follows:
- `./src` and `./include`: The runtime.
- `./lfc`: A minimal copy of the Lingua Franca Compiler including a new code-generator
- `./examples`: Example programs for the different target platforms
- `./external`: External dependencies, such as nanopb
- `./test`: Unit, platform and integration tests

### Coding style
We do object-oriented programming in C, meaning we organize the runtime around a set of classes related by composition and inheritance. A class is just a struct with
a constructor function for populating its fields. Class methods are function pointers as fields of the struct. Inheritence is possible by placing your parent class
as the first field of your struct. This enables casting between a pointer to the parent and a pointer to the child. The child can now override the function pointers
of its parents to achieve polymorphism.

### Formatting and linting
We are using `clang-format` version 19.1.5 which is default with Ubuntu 24.04 for formatting in CI.

To run the formatter:
```sh
make format
```


### Regression tests
Run unit-tests with
```sh
make unit-test
```

Run integration LF tests with
```sh
make lf-test
```

This depends on having the `timeout` utility installed. For macOS users run `brew install coreutils`.

Compute unit test coverage
```sh
make coverage
```

To more-or-less the entire test flow used in CI do
```sh
make ci
```
This does require that you have activated your Zephyr virtual environment, have RIOT cloned and the RIOTBASE environment variable set as well as PICO_SDK_PATH pointing to the RPi Pico SDK.

## References & Sponsors

`reactor-uc` draws inspiration from the following existing open-source projects:

- [reactor-cpp](https://github.com/lf-lang/reactor-cpp)
- [reactor-c](https://github.com/lf-lang/reactor-c)
- [qpc](https://github.com/QuantumLeaps/qpc)
- [ssm-runtime](https://github.com/ssm-lang/ssm-runtime)

Commit message:

Patmos and S4NoC support: 2nd commit

README.md, after:

Reactor Micro-C 
====================

`reactor-uc` is a task scheduling runtime for Lingua Franca, targeted at embedded and resource-constrained systems. Please refer to the
[Lingua Franca Handbook](https://www.lf-lang.org/docs/) for more information on reactor-oriented programming using Lingua Franca. For more
information on reactor-uc see our [docs](https://www.lf-lang.org/reactor-uc/)


## Getting started

### Requirements
- CMake
- Make
- A C compiler like GCC or clang
- Linux or macOS development environment
- Java 17
- Additional requirements depend on the target platform

## Supported Platforms
`reactor-uc` can run on top of Zephyr, RIOT, Raspberry Pi Pico and POSIX-compliant OSes.

### Native (macOS and Linux)
`reactor-uc` can also run natively on a host system based on Linux or macOS. This is very useful for developing and testing applications
without the target hardware. By setting the platform target property in your LF program to `Native` the compiler will automatically generate 
a CMake project and compile it natively. E.g.

```sh
cat > HelloWorld.lf << EOF
target uC {
  platform: Native
}
 
main reactor {
  reaction(startup) {=
    printf("Hello World!\n");
  =}
}
EOF
./lfc/bin/lfc-dev HelloWorld.lf
bin/HelloWorld
```


### Zephyr

**Template Repository:** [https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-zephyr-uc-template/](https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-zephyr-uc-template/)

Compile and run a simple test on Zephyr. This requires a correctly configured
Zehyr environment, with West installed in a Python virtual environment, is
activated. Inspect `.github/actions/zephyr/action.yml` for an example of setting up your Zephyr workspace. 

First a simple HelloWorld on the `native_posix` target:
```shell
cd examples/zephyr/hello
west build -b native_posix -p always -t run
```

Then a simple blinky targeting NXP FRDM K64F. This will run with most boards supporting Zephyr that have a user LED.
```shell
cd examples/zephyr/blinky
west build -b frdm_k64f -p always
west flash
```
### RIOT 

**Template Repository:** [https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-riot-uc-template/](https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-riot-uc-template/)

Compile and run a simple blinky example on RIOT.
This requires a correctly configured RIOT environment.
Make sure that the environment variable `RIOTBASE` points to a `RIOT` codebase.

```shell
cd examples/riot/blinky
make BOARD=native all term
```

### RP2040

**Template Repository:** [https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-pico-uc-template/](https://github.com/lf-lang/lf-pico-uc-template/)

Download `pico-sdk` and define PICO_SDK_PATH as an environmental variable.

```shell
cd examples/pico
cmake -Bbuild
cd build
make
```

### Patmos

To install Patmos, follow instructions in [https://github.com/t-crest/patmos/](https://github.com/t-crest/patmos) readme file. For now, use the previous version of compiler by running `./misc/build.sh toolchain1`.

Compile and run a Hello World example by running these lines: 

```shell
cd examples/patmos/hello
make all
pasim build/hello.elf
```

## Contributing

### Code organization
The project is organized as follows:
- `./src` and `./include`: The runtime.
- `./lfc`: A minimal copy of the Lingua Franca Compiler including a new code-generator
- `./examples`: Example programs for the different target platforms
- `./external`: External dependencies, such as nanopb
- `./test`: Unit, platform and integration tests

### Coding style
We do object-oriented programming in C, meaning we organize the runtime around a set of classes related by composition and inheritance. A class is just a struct with
a constructor function for populating its fields. Class methods are function pointers as fields of the struct. Inheritence is possible by placing your parent class
as the first field of your struct. This enables casting between a pointer to the parent and a pointer to the child. The child can now override the function pointers
of its parents to achieve polymorphism.

### Formatting and linting
We are using `clang-format` version 19.1.5 which is default with Ubuntu 24.04 for formatting in CI.

To run the formatter:
```sh
make format
```


### Regression tests
Run unit-tests with
```sh
make unit-test
```

Run integration LF tests with
```sh
make lf-test
```

This depends on having the `timeout` utility installed. For macOS users run `brew install coreutils`.

Compute unit test coverage
```sh
make coverage
```

To more-or-less the entire test flow used in CI do
```sh
make ci
```
This does require that you have activated your Zephyr virtual environment, have RIOT cloned and the RIOTBASE environment variable set as well as PICO_SDK_PATH pointing to the RPi Pico SDK.

## References & Sponsors

`reactor-uc` draws inspiration from the following existing open-source projects:

- [reactor-cpp](https://github.com/lf-lang/reactor-cpp)
- [reactor-c](https://github.com/lf-lang/reactor-c)
- [qpc](https://github.com/QuantumLeaps/qpc)
- [ssm-runtime](https://github.com/ssm-lang/ssm-runtime)
